All right,
we're not gonna really use this one,
we're gonna use it for
parts in a little bit.
We're gonna create a new
one to help us out here,
how we haven't used in this
one we had like move 10 steps,
we're gonna make our own special version,
okay?
Now we'll make a block.
And you could give it the same name.
We're given an input,
Let's feel wrong move in 10 years.
Small steps.
[LAUGH] Right.
Move in 10 steps and check to see
if I crash into a wall, right,
whatever you want to name it, it doesn't
matter, like, it's all the same.
So we've got this new function
called move small steps, right.
Which point, like I said before, the,
just to go back, the algorithm here is,
if we wanted to move 10 steps, look where
you were, move one step, are you in wall?
No, keep track of that place,
move next step, are you in wall?
No, move next step, are you in wall?
Right?
And so, we can do that,
and then, you're in wall?
Go back to the last place, right?
And then we can use that for
both cases, so at this point,
by definition, how many times
do we want to run this code?
Well, the number of steps we wanna take,
right?
Let's call this steps.
So yeah, exactly, which is whatever
number we pass in there, the same way for
the move block, you can give it
a given number, maybe it's 10,
maybe it's 20, right?
It could depend as we
work on our gameplay, so
in relative error are 10 hard coded
well let them put in a number and
that's what we'll do, because like
moving might be different than jumping.
You know what I mean?
So for here, we'll just go ahead and
we will repeat this.
You grab this one here, that number of
times, so if they put in number 10,
you know many times they're
gonna repeat this loop.
10 times they put the number 20 You
know many times we're gonna do it 20 And
we're gonna make a new variable for
this sprite only called last why?
Which is before we move you,
we want to keep track about where you were
right Because in case you end up
with a wall and the next step,
we need to know where you were previously.
And then we'll put you back where you're
supposed to be, so we've got this last Y.
And each time we're going to
set that last Y to whatever
the current Y position is, right,
so like where are you now?
Okay, now we're gonna move you,
are you in wall?
If so we kept track of where you were
previously and we put you right back.
Well we're gonna do for X and Y, we'll
do Y first I mean, yeah, I talk about
walking into a wall 'cause it is easy,
I guess I'm always on the ground, right?
And like,
I promise that I wouldn't jump and
wave my arms in the air at the beginning
of this, so but good ca good call out.
So, then whatever that number is and
however, far the wide velocity is, that's
how many times we need to check, so we do
need a little bit of division this time.
>> Should we do run
without screen refresh?
>> Yes, yep, and if you didn't do that,
you can right click on it,
go to edit, just make sure that run
without Screen refresh button is checked.
Okay, so
whatever the velocity that we're going is,
we wanna divide it by the number of
steps we were asked to go, right?
So, this is just a nice way to do
division, which is if we're attempting to
go 10 steps or whatever velocity, divide
it, and you should get the right number.
So we'll go ahead and we'll say change y.
And we need to do the division, the
current velocity by how many steps we're
checking for, so we'll just some division.
And this is just gonna be how much
farther we have to versus how
often we wanna check,
so it's the by steps,
that is probably the hardest math
that we're gonna do in this section.
That's not sure there's
an absolute value hiding
somewhere later but, so
we got that and then we'll go.
If we're touching the danger color
Then actually go back to
the last good spot, right?
You know what, [LAUGH] Don't go where
you were going, we changed our minds.
Right?
You go back to where the last known
good spot was, that last Y, right?
And you are done moving and
we set last Y, or
we set Y speed to zero, velocity Y.
Alright, I'm going to talk through
this one more time, because there's
a lot going on, if I say move in ten
small steps, do this ten times, right?
20 times whatever I say in there,
where were you?
Go the next whatever step was.
If you somehow ended up in red,
we're going to ignore the fact that
we made you take a step forward and
we're going to put you right back to where
you were in the last known good spot.
And then you are done jumping at that
point you are on the ground if going down
was going to put you inside ground.
It means that you are done jumping now,
right and you shouldn't have
to do that anymore, we get rid of fixed
landing by and we move back in our new
Our new version, now the only tricky part
here, actually, we don't even need this,
we've got our own if statement, we'll just
move you, this will handle everything.
The only tricky part is, going down,
we have a negative number,
we can divide by a negative number, right?
So even if we're going down 10 steps,
we need a positive 10, and
if we're going up 10 steps,
we need a positive 10.
Alaska kids versus anyone know how
to always get a positive number
no matter what, and then the adults get
to like, go to high school math, yeah.
[INAUDIBLE].
>> Okay so one math operator that
we need is this absolute value,
the absolute value of 5 is 5, the absolute
value of negative 5 is 5, right?
It's just no matter what you
get a positive number, and
we'll do that for
the absolute value of velocity Y,
let's put our hero where he
belongs to in the beginning.
I wonder if,
because I'm doing it after the jump loop,
I have a hypothesis,
I don't know if it's right,
no, we're still sinking into the ground,
all right, let's see.
We change by negative one,
basically, we press,
we're going to do the jump motion,
you know what?
We're changing y twice, right?
I change Y, and then in my code,
I change Y again, so
if you do the same thing twice,
things will break on you.
Look at that, and he jumps, okay now, the
big question, I actually don't wanna start
I'm in the right spot because I don't have
the ability to walk left and right yet.
Until I have that ability that
little like, I should do this to
be nice to myself,
I'm not being very nice to myself, okay,
jumping, the big question Caleb
can he jumped through ceilings?
Right, because we're setting it to zero,
because it was positive,
now if I hold space, I'm holding space,
he will continue to shoot his head
into the wall and bang it repeatedly.
But even on the way up,
if you're now touching red, right,
then don't, then stop going up,
set it to zero,
which point he's no longer going up,
now the act of holding.
The Space key is trying to reset it to
10 over and over and over and over and
over and over and over over over again.
Right but the mechanic that we have at
the very end of do not go into walls
had first taps in and says no, and
it does without a screen refresh.
So this hall he would have theoretically
be going to the wall by 10 are getting
pushed back down, right?
I got to see it, you don't have to say it,
I have to say it.
This is I slowed my code down to such
a sad rate that we don't see it.
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Yeah, I mean, that's doing a lot.
It's doing a lot of calculations there
But, not having to do the render
each time, pretty happy.